    This app sets the dimmer levels for a group of lights based on one of three lighting modes.
    It supports motion sensors that turn on the group, and turns them off after a specified period,
    and has provision for linking to button controllers and Hello Home phrases, through a button device.
    The location can have other modes, but this app only adjusts the lights for three specified modes.
    It could easily be extended to support four modes, an exercise left to the reader.
    
    The app's three modes are hardwired, named "Day", "Evening", and "Night" (easily changed).
    Edit lines 114 and 120 to change the three modes used in the app.  Which modes you choose is up to you.
    The dim levels for all three modes are entered as a single 6 digit number, e.g. 903510,
    which would mean 90 for Day, 35 for Evening, and 10 for Night (or your corresponding modes).  I did these
    things to make it easier to install 20+ intances of the app, without repeating the same information
    over and over.
    
    The app has a master dimmer and some slave dimmers. The idea is that sometimes the master dimmer physical 
    switch is used to turn on the lights -- the slaves follow, or likewise to turn off some lights.  
    The app also allows you to specify additional switches that are turned off when the master dimmer is turned off.  
    
    It should be noted that for this master switch function to work with near instant response, 
    one must use an instant reporting z-wave dimmer.  One such dimmer is the Leviton VRMX1 
    (which must be included directly to the hub to have instant reporting).
    
    This app relies on the custom device type "Dimmer Switch with Reset" for instances of the app that are not
    controlled by motion sensors.  This device type replaces the standard "Dimmer Switch" device type;
    its function is to reset the dimLevel of a dimmer that is off or about to be turned off.
    
    If motion sensors(s) are specified they turn on the master and all slaves to the 
    current mode dimmer level.  The motion activation can be conditioned on times of day,
    days of week, or modes.  The same or other sensors can be used for turning off after x minutes.
    
    The app adjusts dimmer levels on each mode change to one of the three predefined modes.
    A mode change to some other mode has no effect on the dimmer levels, which allows for
    extra modes that can be used to disable motion entirely at times. For an instance of the
    app without motion, if the lights are off at mode change, the app will adjust their
    dimmer levels using the "Dimmer Switch with Reset" device type.  This is so that the next time
    the lights are turned on using the physical switch, they come on to the right level.  
    Without this feature, the light would come on to its previous dimmer level, and then
    adjust the level once ST sees the lights-on event.  This can be a number of seconds 
    after the physical switch is pressed.  What you don't want is for someone to go into
    the bathroom in the middle of the night, turn on a switch, and have the light come on
    bright for a few seconds before it dims to the correct subdued level.
    
    There is one more feature of this app that has to do with manually changing the
    dimmer level.  For example, in the evening, a woman wants to put on makeup and the light
    isn't bright enough.  She turns up the dimmer.  That event is responded to by temporarily
    adjusting the dimmer level for both master and slaves to that new level.


